Review for primary proposal, ID #1

Title: Tracing the Circumgalactic Medium with MaNGA

Proposal overview: The author proposes to use HST archival absorption
observations to correlate properties of the intergalactic medium with
properties of galaxies observed by MaNGA. The author plans to include galaxies
with HST absorption lines possessing impact parameters < 2 Mpc of MaNGA
sources. This criterion yields ~1,100 galaxies in the sample. The author plans
to compare galaxy properties with how concentrated the IGM is around the galaxy
for sources with multiple absorption lines nearby. The author will derive the
rotation of the IGM and compare to the embedded galaxy rotation in Halpha.
The large sample will allow the author to conclude whether inclination
angle of the embedded galaxy affects the sightline measurements. Finally
the author will compare IGM gas in groups and field galaxies. 

Strengths: Science goals are clear and concise. Four testable hypothesis are
presented. The author is wary of the caveats of associating absorption line
measurements with individual galaxies, e.g. they will use redshift independent
distances to the sample galaxies to avoid group interactions and local Hubble
flows. MaNGA's sample size and simultaneous gathering power of star formation
rates, gas outflow rates, kinematics and other properties are well suited to
the proposed research.

Weaknesses: The author should provide references on previous studies of the IGM
in the introduction. The current state of research of the IGM is not well
described until science questions are asked. The author does not provide many
specifics on how they plan to use MaNGA for answering the science questions.
For example, the author did not mention what properties of the IGM will be
compared between group and field galaxies. The proposal could be improved by
including exactly which absorption lines will probe which properties of the
IGM. Mention of the Lyman alpha line is present, but does the width of the line
correspond directly to the amount of gas? 

Grade: 7


