
You will be the "primary" reviewer on one proposal and the "secondary" reviewer
on another.  The primary and secondary reviewers should read the assigned
proposal very carefully and be prepared to summarize the science goals of the
proposal and its strengths and weaknesses in our in-person review.   It is NOT
your job as a reviewer to read any background references pertaining to the
proposal.  (You may if you like, but it is definitely not required or
expected.)  You must turn in your primary and secondary reviews to me in
writing at our in-person meeting.  The length should be ~2-3 paragraphs.
(Usually 1 paragraph on science goals and methods, one on strengths, and one on
weaknesses.)  These reviews will be provided to the proposers, so please keep
comments and criticisms constructive.

For all other proposals please fill out the attached spreadsheet with your
notes and grades (The spreadsheet is attached in excel, numbers, and CSV
formats.)  These forms will NOT be given to the reviewers and you need not use
complete sentences here.  Think of this a place to jot short notes to yourself
that will help you to remember the proposal during the review.  I have included
an example in the spreadsheet so you can get a feel for what I am looking for.

We will use a 1 - 10 grading scheme outlined below to quantitatively evaluate
the proposals.  I have taken the descriptions of what each grade means directly
from NOAO TAC.  You may award grades that are non-intergers if you like.
*Please send your completed spreadsheets with grades to me by 9 PM on Tues May
13.*

Your final project grade will be based 50\% on your proposal and 50% on your
reviews of other proposals. Your proposal grade will be determined by me (not
by the review panel).  I am aware that people are starting from very different
places - some having never worked on astronomy before, and some having 2 years
of experience on a project similar to what they are proposing.  I will
certainly take this into account.

Your review grade will be based 20% on your primary and secondary summaries,
10% on your spreadsheets, and 20% on your participation in the in-person
review.  Mainly I'm looking to see that you've thought deeply and critically
about the other proposals and are prepared to give constructive written and
verbal feedback.

--------------------------------------------------------------
Grade Descriptions (from NOAO, adapt as appropriate for MaNGA)

10  Outstanding proposal:  Especially compelling, very high priority observing
program with extremely well defined scientific goals that address an important
and timely astrophysical problem. Excellent and feasible methodology; excellent
and capable proposer(s) with good track record of publishing their
observational results.

9 Excellent proposal: Addresses an important astrophysical problem with a
well-defined and feasible approach. Compelling science case and good
methodology.

8 Good proposal: Has good science content and addresses a problem or object(s)
of interest, with a good chance of success.

7 Average proposal: This proposal has merit, but does not stand out from the
group as being particularly strong or weak.

6 Below average proposal:  The science is of some value but the proposal is not
compelling. The goals or the methodology may be weak (or poorly described), or
the proposal may simply be of lower priority.

5 Poor proposal: The scientific goals are unclear or the methodology is not
well thought out. Even if the observations are made, it is not clear how or if
the science will be advanced.

3 This proposal is seriously flawed. Do not schedule: The science is wrong, or
the targets are not available, or the observations are technically impossible


