Review for primary proposal, ID #3

Title: Correlating the Detection of Extraplanar Diffuse Ionized Gas in Disk
Galaxies with Global Galaxy Properties

Proposal overview: Detected extraplanar diffuse ionized gas (DIG) in nearby
edge-on disk galaxies varies in morphology. The author proposes to use
spatially-resolved maps of star formation histories, stellar mass and age, and
gas kinematics to correlate global galaxy properties with the distribution of
DIG. Several aspects of the origins of extraplanar DIG are unknown. DIG is
supplied by a supplemental heating source besides young stellar radiation. DIG
has been seen as filaments, clumps or patches, confusing the origin between HII
regions, chimneys, and ionization cones. The author plans to use disks inclined
greater than 80 deg, stellar masses > 10**9 solar masses, and sources in the
primary sample at lower redshifts. 

Strengths: The author relates the proposed research to a relevant and pressing
question in astrophysics, how do a galaxy's global properties affect the
extraplanar DIG? The author provides a careful selection of galaxies likely to
possess DIG which is detectable by MaNGA, estimating a few hundred disk
galaxies with i > 80 deg to be present. MaNGA (along with SAMI) will be the
first survey to provide a uniform sample of spatially-resolved maps of star
formation rates, stellar masses, star formation histories, and gas kinematics
for a large number of galaxies. The author's proposed research will be the
first of its kind.

Weaknesses: AGN may be a source of contamination for detection of the lines
used to identify DIG. The author should consider using BPT diagrams (e.g.
Kewley et al.  2001, ApJ, 556, 121 and Kauffmann et al. 2003, MNRAS, 346,
1055). The author could benefit from combining samples from the MaNGA and the
SAMI survey as they are quite similar; the SAMI survey includes ~10,000
galaxies in the sample and all of the spectral lines planned for use in this
proposal are within their wavelength coverage. The author could potentially
double their sample size.

Grade: 9.5

